# FitSnitch-App

See the project wiki for more docs and resources: https://github.com/Fitsnitch-CS480/fitsnitch-app/wiki

## Getting Started

- Clone the repository into a new folder
- Install dependencies: `npm ci`
  - This command will only install exactly what is in the `package-lock.json` and will not attempt to update any packages.

### Secrets Setup

- **Environment Variables**: Various keys and IDs are saved in the `server/.env` file. Copy the example file from Bitwarden to get started and fill in any user-specific keys (eg: AWS).

- **Firebase Admin Credentials**: The server is authorized with Firebase via a JSON file that is saved is Bitwarden as 'Firebase Admin Service Account Key'. It needs to be available to the server and its path needs to be in the env vars.

- **Firebase Device Config**: Android and iOS devices each need to have a JSON file generated by the Firebase app in order to receive notifications. Copy the file from Bitwarden to these locations:
  - Android: `react-native-app/android/app/google-services.json`
  - iOS: ???


## Local Environment

Make sure your environment is prepared to run either Android or iOS emulators.

### Android Prep

...

### iOS Prep

...

## Local Development

To run the app locally, you need to first have the local server running:

``` bash
cd server && npm run dev
```


The above commands will start the server in dev mode which compile the Typescript and watch for changes.

Now you're ready to run the app in an emulator! If you have everything setup right in your environment, that should be as simple as running the appropriate npm script:

- Android: `cd react-native-app && npm run android`
- iOS: `cd react-native-app && npm run ios`

Either of those will spin up the Metro server (provides hot reloading for the React Native app itself) and the appropriate emulator.

After starting an emulator (or launching from a physical device), you will need to add a mapping to the port running the server on your machine. To do so, run the following commands:

- Android (Windows cmd): `adb reverse tcp:4000 tcp:4000`
- iOS: ???

You can test the mapping by visiting `localhost:4000` in a browser on your emulator. It should simply return 'FitSnitch Server'.
